Hello and welcome to Adopting
iCloud Storage — Part 2.
I'm Michael Jurewitz,
the evangelist responsible for iCloud.
iCloud Storage is a powerful
set of APIs for storing user
documents and data in iCloud.
By using iCloud,
you can make sure that your users' data
is available on all of their devices,
providing a seamless user experience.
In Part 1,
we took a look at the fundamentals
of working with iCloud,
and how you can adopt the
Key Values Store and UI document.
Today, we'll take a look at how you
can use Core Data with iCloud.
Next, I'll show you how your
application can store and manage
individual files in iCloud.
And finally,
we'll talk about some tips and
tricks that everyone who works
with iCloud should know about.
So let's get started.
Today, we're going to break
things up a little bit.
First, we're going to talk about
integrating iCloud with Core Data.
Next,
we're going to take a look at working
with individual files and data.
And finally, we're going to finish things
up with taking a look at
some iCloud tips and tricks.
So let's get started with Core Data.
Now, just as a refresher,
let's remind ourselves
about the Core Data stack.
So remember, in Core Data,
you work with things called
Managed Object Contexts.
You can think of these as basically
like the scratch pads for all of the
different managed objects that you
happen to have in your application.
All these objects, of course,
have all of their relationships to
each other and hold all of your data.
Now, beneath all that is
the actual store file,
the SQLite file where all this
information gets written out.
Sitting between these two layers is
the NS Persistent Store Coordinator.
And, as the name might suggest,
its basic job is to coordinate
the interactions between
these two different layers.
So, with that review out of the way,
let's keep going.
So Core Data, what can it do for you?
Well, the answer is, quite a lot.
Core Data gives you
automatic persistence,
so you don't need to think about
how to write your data out.
Core Data does that for you.
Core Data also can provide
you automatic undo management,
so you don't need to
worry about undo or redo.
You can just look.
Core Data help you do it.
Core Data also provides
validation and error checking,
so you can make sure that all
of your data remains valid in
exactly the way that you expect it.
And Core Data also offers seamless
merging of iCloud content.
In fact, on the iCloud side,
it really is a powerful option
for you to take advantage of.
Core Data allows you to pick
up incremental updates and
changes to all the information
as it comes over from iCloud.
You also have support for
external file references,
so you can take things like images,
movies, sounds, and store them outside of
your database while still
integrating directly with iCloud.
Core Data is also a great option
for shoebox-style applications.
Think of any application,
say like iPhoto or iTunes,
where you're managing lots
of content or lots of media.
Core Data is really well adapted
for that kind of use case.
In other words,
it also provides automatic merging
and updates of your content.
And best of all, it's easy to adopt.
But perhaps one of the most important
reasons that you'd want to consider
using Core Data is how it handles
differences that come in from iCloud.
And it does so using something
called a three-way merge.
So let's talk a bit about exactly
what a three-way merge actually is.
So if we start off with some content,
say some address book content.
Here we've got John Doe with an
email address of john@apple.com.
On one device,
if we go and make a change,
say like making the first name Johnny,
and then on that same device
make a change a little bit later,
say by changing the
last name to Appleseed,
that's all well and good.
We've only made one change on one device.
Now, if on a second device we
had made a different change,
say like changing the email
address to johnny at apple.com,
we would actually have
a bit of a problem here.
Because of the way that iCloud
likes to manage conflicts and
fold this information together,
if you were using
something like UIDocument,
you would have had several file
conflicts to have to resolve.
However, Core Data can look at all of
these changes and look back at
the ancestor of all of these,
the original John Doe,
john at apple.com entry,
and basically figure out how to fold
all of these differences together to
just end up with the right result.
It really is a powerful way for
you to take advantage of iCloud.
Core Data also helps you write less code.
It handles all of the basics
of iCloud integration for you,
so you don't need to worry about
working with NS File Coordinator,
NS File Presenter, NS Metadata Query,
or NS File Version.
If any of these classes or
protocols are unfamiliar to you,
that's okay.
We're going to talk about them a
whole bunch a little bit later.
So let's look at how Core Data actually
integrates with iCloud.
As your application writes
to its Core Data store file,
Core Data is going to automatically
create transaction logs for
you in your Ubiquiti container.
And this is the data that
actually moves between devices.
So if we look at how this works,
if you save a document, say,
on your iPhone by calling NS Managed
Object Context "save," this creates
a series of transaction logs.
These transaction logs go up to iCloud.
And then end up getting distributed
out to all of the rest of your devices.
Now, on another device,
if you also make some edits
and call "save," these new
transaction logs will get created.
They go back up to iCloud.
And then they get redistributed
out to all of your devices,
helping to keep your data up to date.
So Core Data is a very useful tool.
Now Core Data Transaction Logs
are great because they're simple,
they're efficient,
and they allow for completely
recreating your data,
because they are a complete
history of every single change
you've made to your database.
So how do you get started?
Well, it turns out it's really easy.
There are a couple persistent
store options that you need to
add to your persistent store,
and basically just one
notification that you need to
make sure that you subscribe to.
So the two options you need to add
to your store are the NS Persistent
Store Ubiquitous Content Name Key —
we'll just call this the Name Key from
now on — and the NS Persistent
Store Ubiquitous Content URL Key,
which we'll just call the URL Key.
Now the notification that you want to
make sure that you subscribe to is the
NS Persistent Store Did Import Ubiquitous
Content Changes notification.
So let's talk about working
with the Name Key and URL Key.
Now the Name Key is a required attribute,
and basically this is just a way for you
to uniquely identify your store file.
And the emphasis here is unique.
If you have several store
files in your application and
they all want to use iCloud,
you need to make sure they
all have different Name Keys.
Now the URL Key basically just
indicates where you would like
these transaction logs to be
saved in your Ubiquiti container.
This is not a required key,
but we do recommend setting it.
So, for example,
pick a directory in your Ubiquiti
container that you'd like to use,
and supply this location as the URL Key.
Now, actually using these keys in
practice is pretty straightforward.
Anytime you go to create
your persistent store,
you pass into it an options dictionary.
All that you need to do is make sure
that you supply entries for the name
key and the URL key if you want to
use iCloud with your Core Data store.
Here we've provided a unique name,
as well as a path to
our transaction logs.
Now, normally this options dictionary
also contains other options.
Things like the NS Migrate Persistent
Stores Automatically option,
or the NS Infer Mapping
Model Automatically option.
You want to make sure that
you keep those in there.
And that's really all you have to do.
By just supplying those two keys,
you've told Core Data everything
that it needs to know to begin
taking advantage of iCloud.
So let's take a look at how this works.
When you're storing these files
in your Ubiquiti container,
there are a few things that we recommend.
First and foremost,
we recommend that you create
in your Ubiquiti container a
folder that ends in .nosync,
and that this is where you
place your Core Data store file.
Now it's important to place your store
file here for a number of reasons.
One, if the user signs out of iCloud,
you want to make sure that that store
file stays in your Ubiquiti container.
The second is that you want to make sure
that this store file isn't trying to be
synced directly to the iCloud servers,
and that's what the .nosync extension
does at the end of that folder.
You'll also notice in your Ubiquiti
container that you've got the
directory where you asked Core Data to
store your transaction logs.
Now, when a change comes in from iCloud,
essentially what happens
is a new transaction log
is added to that directory.
Core Data automatically
notices this fact,
imports that content directly
into your store file,
and then notifies your application
that this content was imported.
This gives you a chance to react to that,
update your user interface,
tell the user, etc.
Now,
one of the most interesting things about
setting up your Core Data storage in
this way is that when you go to set up,
say, a brand new device,
when you first access
your Ubiquiti container,
you'll find that there are a
bunch of transaction logs there.
But you won't have an
existing Core Data store file.
Well, Core Data can specifically
notice this case,
and when you go to create your
store file for the first time,
it'll actually read in any existing
transaction logs and automatically
recreate that store file for you,
complete with its content.
So let's take a look at how to deal
with changes that come in from iCloud.
I mentioned before that
there's this NS Persistence
Store Did Import Ubiquitous
Content Changes notification.
And this is going to be the notification
that Core Data calls anytime there's
new content that's come in from iCloud.
Your application wants to watch
for this notification and make
sure that it merges any changes
into your managed object context.
This is also the perfect opportunity
for you to ask any views that
might be affected by these
changes to refresh their content.
Now, this notification that comes in
also has a lot of information
passed along with it.
In particular,
the notification object will identify
the specific persistent store
that was affected by this import.
So if you have multiple
stores in your application,
you'll know exactly which one updated.
The User Info Dictionary also includes
a lot of other useful information,
in case you need to make use
of that in your application.
You'll get a chance to know
which objects were inserted — so
basically which ones were created
— which objects were updated,
and which objects were deleted.
Now, when merging changes from iCloud,
you simply want to write some code
that looks a little bit like this:
You've subscribed to the NS Persistent
Store Did Import Ubiquitous
Content Changes notification.
And when your notification gets called,
you want to turn right back around,
and on your Manage Object Context,
you want to call "Merge Changes from
Context Did Save Notification" and
just pass in the notification object.
Core Data will take care of the rest.
It'll look at what's changed,
and make sure that your Managed
Object Context reflects that information.
After you've done that,
you want to make sure that you
give the rest of your application a
chance to respond to these changes.
In this case,
we're creating our own notification,
just called "Refresh
All Views," and we're posting
that within our application.
Any of our view controllers that
happen to be on screen would want
to listen for this notification,
and then potentially go
and refresh their content.
Now, when it comes to merging
content from iCloud,
we have some recommendations
on how you should do that.
The first is to make sure that
you have a merge policy set on
your Managed Object context.
So, what is a merge policy?
Well, as you're going and you're changing
content in your Managed Object context,
when you go to save,
that context is going to
look at your database,
and it's going to look at the state
of the information in that database.
And if it can tell that it looks
like things may have changed out from
under you while you're manipulating
all the information in memory,
by default,
Core Data will throw an error.
Now, in the case of iCloud,
this is exactly what happens when
new content comes in from iCloud.
Core Data updates the database
automatically underneath you.
So, you're not going to want to use
something like the default merge policy,
which is the error merge policy.
In this case, case, when you go to save,
you'll just get an error that comes back.
Instead,
we recommend setting the NS Merge by
Property Object Trump Merge Policy.
Now, you might be saying, "Wait,
what does that mean again?" Well,
let's kind of break this down,
because it's actually a little more
straightforward than it might seem.
So, Merge by Property.
What this is saying is, as your Managed
Object Context goes to save,
it should take a look at every
single object that is changed,
and check it against its
state in the database,
property by property, as opposed to, say,
only looking at the entire object.
Now, Object Trump.
What this means is that the state of
the object in memory is what should win.
Now, this makes sense.
This is usually what the user has
most recently ended up changing.
So, you want that data to be
saved to your database.
The opposite of this is the
Store Trump Merge Policy.
So, again, we recommend setting Merge by
Property Object Trump Merge Policy.
Now, when it comes to managing multiple
versions of your application,
you basically do that like you
always have with Core Data.
You want to make sure that you
provide version information
in your Core Data model
file like you always have.
So we scope your transaction logs
based on the version information
in your Core Data model file.
Now, the important part here is that all
this information remains scoped.
So, for example, if you have an app that
updates on one device,
we'll make sure that all of those
transaction logs are written into a
directory specific to that app version.
Now, on a second device, when the user,
say,
upgrades your app at a much later time,
we'll notice this and we'll automatically
migrate in any existing transaction logs
from that version of your application
that happened to be on iCloud.
You still, though,
want to consider some way to detect
device differences in your app version.
For example,
you really don't want to have
your app on an iPad and your app
on the iPhone be two different
versions for a long period of time.
If your apps aren't able to
successfully talk to each other,
that could end up being a bad situation.
So, you might use something like the
Key Values Store to simply write the
greatest known version of your app.
And if you notice that the user's
been using an old version of your
app for a long period of time,
you might want to tell them, hey,
there's an update.
You should probably go grab that.
Now, Core Data has support for something
called External File References
that's new in iOS 5,
and the upshot is basically
that you want to be using them.
External File References make it
easy to stop storing bindings.
So, you can store your binary data
and files in your database.
Best of all, Core Data handles these
seamlessly for iCloud as well.
All it is is a simple checkbox
in the Core Data Modeler,
and then Core Data will
automatically take any of the data
you write to these attributes,
persist them to the file system,
and make sure they make
their way up to iCloud.
So, let's talk about some tips and tricks
for working with Core Data and iCloud.
First and foremost,
make sure you place your store
file in your Ubiquiti container,
but within a directory
that ends in .nosync.
You want to make sure that your
Core Data store file is not directly
syncing with the iCloud servers.
The next is to use
External File References.
This is a fantastic feature,
and it's a great way for you to keep
your database performance more efficient.
Finally,
you want to make sure that you let
iCloud content be iCloud content.
So what does this mean?
Well, it's tempting to want to do things
like mirror your Core Data database
locally so that if a user signs out,
they still have access to it.
But that really ends up only creating
more problems than it solves.
What do you do when the user has
signed out for a long period of
time and now has different content
than what was actually on the cloud?
How do you detect this scenario,
and how do you solve it?
Really,
the cleanest thing is to simply treat
the user signing out of iCloud as being
just that — that they've signed out,
and that all of their iCloud
content should simply stay there.
Let them go ahead and
work with local content,
but don't mix and match the two.
Alright, so that's Core Data.
Next, let's talk about working with
individual files and data.
So, UI Document and Core Data do
a lot of work for you.
They handle reading your data,
writing your data, updating from iCloud,
and coordinating with iCloud.
But perhaps you've got an app that
just needs a bit more control.
Or maybe you have lots of files and data
that don't really fit a document model,
or even a database model.
Well, the good news is,
iCloud can still support
what you want to do.
Let's talk a bit more about that.
So, fundamentally,
you've got your app and
your Ubiquiti container,
and the files that
you'd like to put there.
But there's a very big problem
that you need some help in solving.
So, there are going to be changes that
come in from other devices to iCloud.
iCloud is going to want to update
files in your Ubiquiti container.
Your app needs to be able to notice
these changes and then indicate
those to the user in some way.
At the same time, the user is going to be
actually using your application,
making changes to these files.
You're going to want to
save those files out,
and have iCloud notice those,
and then send those out to other devices.
But fundamentally,
now you're talking about multiple
processes trying to access the
same file at the same time.
One process trying to write,
while another is trying to read, is bad.
How does your app know when it's safe
to either read or write to these files?
iCloud is going to make
changes to these files,
and then your app has to know
that it needs to go read them.
How does your app know when it's
time for it to notice these changes?
iCloud also needs your files
to be up-to-date on disk,
so it can do conflict detection.
So how does your application
know when it needs to write out
the newest version of a file?
Now, throughout all of this,
UIDocument and Core Data handle
all of this complexity for you.
So before you go and decide that these
are all problems that you want to solve,
again, ask yourself,
would you just be better served working
with UIDocument or with Core Data?
Now, if you do want to manage
your own files and data,
there are some new API as part of
iOS 5 that you can take advantage of.
The first is a new class
called NSFileCoordinator.
The second is a protocol
called NSFilePresenter.
NSFileCoordinator helps you
handle reading and writing
in a coordinated fashion,
and we'll talk a bit more about
what that means in a moment.
NSFilePresenter is how you can
be notified about changes to
the files that you care about.
So let's talk about file coordination.
Fundamentally,
NSFileCoordinator is a locking mechanism.
File coordination is basically
meant to prevent one process from
reading while another process writes.
But it's also a notification mechanism.
Any writing that you might do to the
file system may cause some other process,
such as iCloud, to read.
Any reading that you want to
do may cause some other process
to want to write out new files.
want to write out new data
for you and vice versa.
So when should you use File Coordinator?
Well,
anytime that you're trying to do reading,
creating, exporting, updating, copying,
moving and renaming,
even for directories.
And did I mention that UIDocument
does all of this for you?
Now, when do you not need to
use NS File Coordinator?
Well,
the whole point of file coordination
is to use it any time you're dealing
with content in your Ubiquiti container,
so that iCloud can know about
the changes that you make,
and vice versa.
So, for any content that isn't
in your Ubiquiti container,
you don't need to use file coordinator.
So this includes temporary files,
cache files,
other files in your application sandbox,
etc.
So what are the locking rules
that file coordinator uses?
It's actually pretty straightforward.
Readers don't block other readers.
If you have two processors
trying to read the same file,
that's totally safe.
Readers do block writers.
If you're in the process
of reading a file,
someone else who wants to update it needs
to wait until you're finished reading.
Writers block readers.
Again, if you're writing to a file,
someone else needs to wait to read
that file until you're finished.
Writers block other writers.
This is to help make sure that two
different processes don't just end up
creating a bundle of random bits on disk.
So writers need to wait for each other
to finish before they can write again.
Now, we treat file packages atomically,
so the entire file package gets updated
or read any time we read or write.
And it's important to know that file
coordinators don't block themselves,
so you don't have to worry about
file coordinators deadlocking.
So how do you actually
create a file coordinator?
Well, you do that with a method called
"initWithFilePresenters," a
method on NS File Coordinator.
You can pass in an
NS File Presenter to this method,
or nil if you want.
Typically, this is the class that is
trying to have the reading or
writing done on behalf of it.
This also helps us filter out
messages about your own file access.
If we notice that a particular
one of your classes is trying
to read or write to a file,
we won't notify it about that
file changing as a result
of its own reads or writes.
This also helps us break
any potential deadlocks,
because now we know the different parts
of your applications and the files
they may be trying to read or write to.
So let's take a look at doing
some simple reading and writing
with NS File Coordinator.
The methods that you're going to
use the most often are these two:
Coordinate Reading Item at URL and
Coordinate Writing Item at URL.
Now you'll notice that both
of these methods have an end
parameter that's a block.
It's this "by" accessor.
So what you do is you basically pass
in a block that represents the reading
or the writing that you want to do,
and NS File Coordinator invokes
that block.
Now,
it's important to note that what gets
passed into this block is a new URL.
Basically, you tell us where on the file
system you want to read or write to.
And between now and the time
that you actually get to
do that reading or writing,
we'll try to pay attention to anything
that may have caused that file or
that location to move or be renamed,
and we'll pass in a new URL that
still points to a valid location.
So you want to make sure that
you're using this new URL.
Now, it's important to note that both
of these methods are synchronous,
so you want to make sure that
you execute them as part of
something like Dispatch Async.
So let's take a look at a simple
example of reading a file.
Here we've got a method
called ReadFromURLError.
Now the first thing we do is
create a file coordinator.
So NSFileCoordinator, ALEC,
"init with file presenter," and we pass
in "self" because we are the object
that is trying to do this reading.
Next, we simply call
coordinateReadingItemAtURL,
we pass in the URL we want to read,
and we pass in the block representing
the reading that we want to be done.
You'll notice this block
takes that new URL parameter,
and all we're doing is creating
a NSData and initing it with
a contents of that new URL.
This is going to go ahead
and load in that data,
and then later we can simply return
that data back out to our caller.
Now,
there's a very important detail here.
You'll notice that we declared
this NSDataLocal with __Block.
What this does is make sure that
this data local is actually passed
into this block by reference,
as opposed to by copy.
This way,
when we write information to this
data variable as part of this block,
we still have that information
available to us outside of the block,
which is why we can go ahead
and just return that data.
You also want to make sure along
the way that you propagate any error
parameters that you might have.
So you notice we took
in an error parameter,
and we made sure that we
propagated that on down the stack.
So what might have just happened as
we were trying to do that reading?
Well, we may have had to
wait for other writers.
Say, for example,
iCloud may have been trying
to write to that file.
We would have had to wait
for that writing to finish.
The file might have
been moved or deleted,
and we would have to be able
to handle that circumstance.
There would have been
NS File Presenter messaging going on.
We'll talk more about that in a bit.
And there may have been errors
that we needed to handle.
For example, a file presenter might
have had trouble updating.
Let's talk about some
other file coordinator API.
There's API for doing
multiple file coordination.
Say, for example,
reading at a URL and writing at a URL,
all as part of the same action.
You would use this typically
for things like copies or moves.
You'll notice that in each case,
you pass in the URL that
you want to read from,
and the URL that you want to write to.
As a difference,
the "by accessor" block also takes
two URL parameters — basically a new
reading URL and a new writing URL.
You would want to make sure
that you use those parameters as
part of your block that's doing
that reading and that writing.
NS File Coordinator also has a way for
you to do batched file coordination.
Now, let's say that you had thousands of
files that you knew that you needed
to either read from or write to,
or possibly both.
Well, you can use the "Prepare
for Reading Items at URLs"
method to be able to do that.
In each case, you pass in an array of the
URLs that you want to work with.
At the end of this,
you're going to be passed
back a completion handler,
and the expectation is that you are
going to invoke this completion handler.
This is going to be what allows the
system to basically catch up with
all the reading and the writing
that you just finished doing.
Alright, so let's talk a bit
about NS File Presenter.
NS File Presenter is how you can
find out what's happening with
the files that you care about.
Your app basically gets a chance
to say what files it happens
to be showing to the user.
Now, as a result,
your application also gets to participate
in other processes' coordinated file
access to those particular files.
Now,
when should you be an NSFile presenter?
Well, anytime that you're showing an item
to the user for viewing or editing,
you likely want to be a file
presenter for that file.
This could be a file, a file package,
or even a directory of files.
This is going to give your application
an opportunity to reload its state for a
file anytime that file happens to change.
It's also going to give your application
the opportunity to close that file if
another process happens to delete it.
And one of the things you're going
to frequently do when you're a file
presenter is have to relinquish
control of that file to another
process for a short period of time.
Now, for all of this,
these are things that
UIDocument does for you.
So again,
if you can use something like UIDocument,
there's a lot of value in doing so.
Now, NSFilePresenter, again,
is a protocol.
So you get a chance to implement
methods on your own classes,
like "Presented Item Did Change,"
"Presented Item Did Move to URL," etc.
And this is how your classes
will be notified when these
particular events happen.
You also get an opportunity to be
told when you need to do certain
things in the lifecycle of your file.
Save, for example,
when you really need to save that most
current version of your file right now.
Or perhaps that you need to
accommodate the fact that another
process just deleted that file.
So again, remember, it's a protocol,
not a class.
And you become a file presenter
by using a couple methods on
things like NSFileCoordinator.
So NSFileCoordinator has a method called
AddFilePresenter and RemoveFilePresenter.
There's also the InitWithFilePresenter
that we saw earlier.
Now you need to make sure whenever
you add yourself as a file presenter
that you also remove yourself as
a file presenter once you're done.
Oftentimes, dialog is too late.
You want to be doing this sooner.
As an example,
UIDocument does this in close
with Completion Handler,
so you should be doing the same
for your own files and documents.
Now, occasionally you need to be
able to relinquish your file
to other readers and writers,
and there's a couple methods that'll get
called when this exactly needs to happen.
So you've got Relinquish Presented
Item to Reader and Relinquish
Presented Item to Writer.
These get called basically when
someone else wants to read or write
to this file that you care about.
Now,
what gets passed into this method is sort
of this crazy-looking block parameter,
and we'll try to break down exactly what
it is that's getting passed in here.
The upshot is that what's
getting passed in is a block
that you need to quickly invoke.
You also get a chance to pass your
own block back into this method that
represents any sort of work that you
want to be done immediately after
that reading or writing takes place.
So let's look at an example.
So here we have a sample implementation
of relinquishPresentedItemToWriter.
So the first thing you want to do
when implementing a method like this,
when it gets called,
is make sure that you stop looking at
the file that's about to be written to.
You want to make sure that you
stop looking at any IVARs that
might relate to that file.
Basically, stop paying attention to
it for that moment in time.
The very next thing that you need to
do is make sure that you invoke that
writer block that gets passed in.
Again, this is the actual unit of writing
that is about to happen to this file.
This is your chance to basically
let the other process go,
and you have to do this.
Now, at the same time, though,
you also get a chance to pass in
your own block that represents the
additional work that you want done
once that writing is finished.
So here we're passing in our
own block that basically is
just going to tell ourselves to
stop waiting for this writer.
And once that writing is finished,
that will be invoked,
and we go back to normal using that file.
Now, whenever you're a file presenter,
you're going to most commonly see things
like "Presented item did change" or
possibly "Presented item did move to
URL" get called on your file presenter.
This is going to be what tells you
that a change actually happened,
and it's your opportunity to catch up,
to notice this change, to update your UI.
Typically,
this is going to happen while you
happen to be relinquished to a writer.
This is going to be your opportunity
to notice that change and make sure
that all of your state is up to date.
All right, so that's a bit about working
with files and data with iCloud.
Finally,
let's take a look at some tips and
tricks for working with iCloud.
So first and foremost,
where do your files go?
Where exactly should you put them
within the Ubiquiti container itself?
The Ubiquiti container is
just this normal directory,
and you can put things
really wherever you want.
There is, however, one special directory,
and that's the Documents directory.
Now,
this directory doesn't exist by default,
but if you create it and you
store files into that folder,
then users can actually view the file
names of the items in that directory
in their iCloud Storage settings.
What's more, users also have the ability
to individually delete
items in that directory.
So if you have items that you
don't intend for the user to
be able to individually delete,
you probably don't
want to put them there.
You can also create any other
directories you want in your Ubiquiti
container to suit your needs.
These won't show up to the user,
and they only get listed
basically as files and data.
So how should you move a file
to your Ubiquiti container?
Say you've got a file in
your application sandbox,
what do you do?
How do you properly move that over?
Well, NS File Manager has a method
called Set Ubiquitous Item at
URL Destination URL Error.
So all you need to do is
basically call Set Ubiquitous Yes,
pass in the URL to where
the file currently exists
in your application sandbox,
and then pass in the URL in
your Ubiquiti container where
you want this file to end up.
NS File Manager will move this
file in a coordinated fashion,
but you need to make sure that you
create any intermediary directories
that you wanted ahead of time.
Now it's important to note
that this method blocks,
so you'll want to make sure that
you call this asynchronously,
typically via something
like Dispatch Async.
When you want to move files
out of your Ubiquiti container,
you do something rather similar.
You can think of this as basically
wanting to download an item
and make a local copy of it.
In this case,
you still use Set Ubiquitous
Item at URL Destination URL,
but in this case,
you pass in Set Ubiquitous No,
and you give the path to the item in your
Ubiquiti container as the item at URL,
and as the destination URL,
you give some path into
your application sandbox.
sandbox.
Now, as you work with iCloud,
your users are potentially going
to be creating lots of files.
And really, you should try to endeavor to
help them not waste disk space.
You want to evict
infrequently used files.
The way to think about this is that any
file that is actually in your Ubiquiti
container is also being stored in iCloud.
So if you see a file that
the user has not accessed in,
say, a few weeks or a few months,
you can go ahead and call
evict ubiquitous item at
URL on that particular file.
This is a method on NS File Manager,
and what this will do is basically
remove the local copy of that file,
but leave the copy on iCloud intact.
hacked, so you can go and download
that the next time you need it.
One of the coolest features in
iCloud is the ability to publish an
item for sharing with other users.
In this case,
NS File Manager has a method called
URL for Publishing Ubiquitous Item at
URL . What this allows you to do is take
any file in your Ubiquiti container,
publish it to the iCloud servers,
and then get back a URL that
you can send to other users
who want to download a copy.
The important part here is that they
are downloading a copy of the file.
This is not, say,
the same reference to the same
file for everyone to share.
This is simply the ability
for them to download a copy.
The important part here is that they
are downloading a copy of the file.
This is not, say,
the same reference to the same
file for everyone to share.
This is simply the ability
for them to download a copy.
Now, when it comes to telling
the state of a file,
NSURL has a lot of help to provide.
You might, for example,
want to be able to show the user that
a file is uploading or downloading
or what percent it may be complete.
And so, NSURL has a method called
Resource Values for Keys.
And there are a bunch of new keys
to find for working with iCloud.
So for example, for a given item,
you can find out: Is it downloaded?
Is it downloading?
Is it finished going either up or down?
This gives you a chance to
provide up-to-date user interfaces
so your users know exactly
what's going on with their files.
All right,
so we talked about working with
Core Data as well as working
with individual files and data.
Okay, so you saw how your Core Data app
can work with iCloud,
discovered how your app can
manage individual files and
data and store them to iCloud,
and you learned the tips and tricks
to use iCloud to its fullest.
I look forward to seeing the
great apps that you'll build
that use iCloud Storage.